Hello?
Hello? Hello.
Hi, sir. Good? Yeah. Hi. Yeah, hi.
Yeah. Good afternoon. Uh, good evening everyone, sir.
Good evening, Sir. Now I see
19 participants has joined.
I have not got that information at total.
How many people have opted for this course? Okay.
So all of you belong
to Gen AI specialization, right?
Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
Okay. Most of the people I think as I,
as I have heard, are joined unit.
Okay, fine. So there should be at least 50
plus people in this box?
Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
Till now, 21 people have joined in. Yeah.
Better to wait for five minutes. Uh, we'll see.
Yeah. Better to wait for five minutes, eh,
So most of you belong to software industry
or any other industry out there?
Yeah, there is, uh, various, uh, group things.
Okay. What kind of My is
relative supply chain management.
Okay. Fine Banking, sir.
In banking. Okay. So what kind of, like,
apart from software industry, what kind of, I mean,
application do you come across from your project
requirement in general?
No. Same, uh, things we are using there also,
it is not like that same python
and all things we are using there.
Gen ai, uh, it is coming up as it is for me,
as it is bank things take time to, you know, uh,
get processed and get updated.
And, uh, the thing is that I'm seeing a lot of, uh, internal
GPTs are coming, but we're not HandsOn.
Uh, right now we are mostly working on ML models and all.
Mm-hmm. But we are not HandsOn on in our team.
Implementation is not,
but in organization it is there.
Okay. So you get a tool from your, uh, internal,
uh, procurement team.
They'll tell you what are the use cases.
Yeah. But it is a little bit difficult.
It's not as straightforward.
What is the requirement of the job? We get that only sir.
And apart from that, it is little bit difficult
to get the access and all kind of stuff
because multiple, multiple level
of approval is required for that.
And justification needs to be provided.
Why we required those things actually
until the proper justification is not
there, no one will approve. So like,
Uh, do you have any requirement, like you have
to generate a, a response based on a given query
of a user automatically?
Uh, no. It is not there,
but, uh, presently it is not there,
but it's, it is part, uh, reinforcement, uh, learning is,
it is part of my project, uh, for it.
That it is one of the part of it.
So yeah. Reinforcement learning is part
of your project from your company?
No, no, from, uh, it, that project for mtech project.
Oh, for Mtech project. Oh, okay.
I'm not talking about Mtech project.
I am asking about your daily requirement in your job. No,
No, it is not there, sir.
It is for my team.
It is not there for other teams might be
there, but for my team.
Okay. No, actually what happens is, while teaching to the
diversified group, like this online mtech, they have a very
specific requirement of learning.
Uh, like if they want to learn something, learn something,
they have a specific requirement.
And if that is not matching,
then the internet will start falling in.
So that is why I wanted to know about what is your, uh,
job requirement in your company.
And if you have a pre predefined mindset about, we want
to know about only that thing, so I need to know whether
that will be covered in my course or not.
Because we teach for a classical, uh,
model, classical dynamics problem, which may not be used
by your job requirement.
As a result, you may feel that these are of no use for me.
Yes. Other people can comment on this.
Hmm. One use case, uh, being discussed, uh,
in our form was, uh, you know, uh, if, uh, a business, uh,
folks comes and they should be able
to sit in some natural language query,
and that should leverage a graph based rack to, you know,
connect to different data sources
and, uh, return the data they're looking for.
So that's something they were asking.
So that, I think that's across there.
Everywhere, uh, the whole in industry is looking to do that.
That's a very basic scenarios. So that's one of the case.
They were, they have been discussing, so.
Okay. Very good. What is your name?
And this is a use case in like, uh,
across all the domain, right?
Yeah, I think a lot of people attempting do that.
I mean, my, some of my friends form as well.
So I mean, that's the, uh, basic use case they're trying
to do, uh, wherever, uh, they can apply alarm sites.
So they look at some, you know, data warehouse tools, uh,
uh, they try to use whatever they provide, uh, as sort
of a engine, uh, along, uh, they try to leverage it
to connect to some sort of, uh, uh,
Rag. So that is basically
rag, uh, pipeline,
which is covered in, uh, rag is covered in another codes of,
yeah, I think LLM or NLP.
Okay. Yeah. True. I mean, if, uh, yeah,
I mean this not directly, I'm just talking in general about
not specific to inforce, uh, reinforcement learning
as such, actually, but,
Okay. So let me start
with course today.
Lemme show you the, before getting into P pt.
Uh, lemme show you the course plan,
which you have already seen in the video.
Okay. Okay.
So this course is splitted in three units.
It's a two credit course,
and it has the basic, uh, in the unit.
One is introduction, uh, basic definition
of different component of reinforcement learning, which is,
uh, consisting of agent
and environment interaction interaction.
And there is application into robotics and games, AI games.
And what are the, uh, common problem for any AI algorithm
that we face That is called exploration
and exploitation problem.
This is part of your introduction in second unit.
It is a mark of decision process.
The title of the unit is basically mark
of decision process is one method
of solving the problems belonging
to the enforcement learning, okay.
And it has various, uh, constituent element in that, how
to define a state, how to define action and all.
I will get into them after I think, um,
se seventh lecture, sixth or seventh lecture.
And then unit three is about another class
or another way of solving the enforcement learning problem
that is called model three, prediction
and control, which is consisting
of many other subtopics like Monte Carlo estimation,
temporal difference learning, and q learning.
Beyond that, there are a lot of terminology like sar sandal,
which I will take you through on those topic
whenever we are getting into a new three.
Okay. And a textbook I have already, uh, mailed to my ta,
they'll be uploading them into your LMS module, the textbook
that we're worldwide.
The one of the most famous book
that you follow is called Richard Suan and Bra Book.
They are the person who have, uh, enormous amount of, uh,
contribution in reinforcement learning died from
1968 and all.
And this, uh, Suan is still alive. Okay?
Next one is, uh, your evaluation component.
Your evaluation component is there is going
to be 15 quizzes held every Saturday.
Uh, so it is like your, uh, quiz will be held on Sunday.
Okay? It'll be, the window will open till night, 9:00 PM
So the course, uh, I mean for the top topics
that I'm teaching in witness day
and Saturday, they'll be part of your quiz, which has
to be attended by you by 9:00 PM for every Sunday.
So a total, we're going to have 14 weeks of class.
We'll have 15 quizzes, which will be accounting
for 45% marks.
So there'll be three question in every day basis. Okay?
MCQ question in summary
with 30 percentage classroom notes will be 10 percentage,
attendance is five percentage,
assignment is 10 percentage.
Okay? I'll be providing you two assignment maximum. Okay?
This is the course, uh, evaluation plan,
Sir. Classroom
notes means, uh, uh, do we need
to submit on portal
Or Yes, you need to submit to portal, uh, you need
to submit everyday basis.
So days you may not do that. But next class on what?
Everyday basis, whatever you take the note of, we submit it
by 11:00 PM on the same day.
Yeah. LMS portal will be opened up for that.
So it's kind of a summary of the class, correct? Yes.
Summary of the class. Whatever you understood
of the class today, you take a note,
you upload it into LMS portal.
Uh, we can do it what? Typing, right?
Yeah, typing and scan it. And upload it.
Okay. So let us get into the topic. Reinforcement learning.
Okay. By the way, I give you my introduction. My name is Dr.
I did, uh, BTech, Mtech and PhD after doing ptech.
I work for software industry
for nearly five and a half years.
I was in HCL Cisco
after development center in hai, followed
by, I work for Cisco.
I was working in computer network domain network security,
transport layer protocol, uh, TLS, transport layer,
security protocol and all.
I got dissolution from software industry.
Then I joined for intake, followed by PhD.
I also did post-doctoral fellowship at National
University of Singapore.
Okay, so that is about my introduction.
So I also belong to most of you people.
Only thing I did not continue in software industry.
So let me show you a figure
before I start talking about what is reinforcement learning.
You're able to see my screen, right? Yes, sir.
Should I increase the Yes, sir.
Should I increase the Yes, sir. Okay. I have increased it.
Okay. Okay.
So, um, the landscape of
reinforcement learning, where it is sitting basically
in the AI domain, we have, uh, machine learning,
and then we have deep learning,
then we have reinforcement learning.
Inside machine learning, we have two kind of learning.
See, machine learning is this, this,
this is the overall shape, okay?
The white color under machine learning,
we have supervised learning.
We have unsupervised learning.
Deep learning is a subset of, uh, like it is specifically,
it is containing most of the supervised learning algorithm.
Only deep learning, very few deep learning algorithms are
there, which are unsupervised.
And reinforcement learning is,
it is different from machine learning, uh, algorithms.
In what way? It is different.
So the difference is lying in this way.
That is, uh,
whenever we are into a real world, we interact
with the environment outside.
When we interact with the environment,
we gain some experience.
Experience can be good, experience can be bad,
and experience will be differ from individual to individual.
So reinforcement learning is all about how do you
learn from your experience?
How do you gather knowledge from your experience?
It is not something like in case of machine learning
that you provide you all the time.
Your dataset and dataset is already labeled by
expert human being.
If the dataset is not labeled by expert human being,
if any normal human being is going
to learn something from the dataset.
In that case, he does lot of trial.
He does lot of, he takes a lot of action into the
environment in which he is living in.
And every time, uh, he does some action, he gets some
reward from the environment.
Reward can be positive, it can be negative, okay?
It can be zero also.
So by the help of reward, he can understand,
he can gather more
and more data from the, uh,
from the environment in which he is living in.
So, reinforcement learning will help you in one thing.
That is, it is called artificial general intelligence.
So normally ai, artificial intelligence,
and the difference between AI
and agi I is nowadays,
we might be hearing this term call a GI, which is basically
because of chat, GPT
and, uh, followed by so many,
so many invention in the modeling perspective.
After Chad g PT came up, there are many modeling
that has come up, which has beaten
the basic model from which Chad g PT started chat started
basic model called auto aggressive model.
There are many other type
of model which have already built an auto aggressive model
like diffusion model, and all of them are part of ai.
No one is part of a GI that is
artificial general intelligence.
Artificial general intelligence is enabled
by reinforcement learning.
And specific example is if you have reinforcement learning,
you can go into the environment.
Your model, your model is called agent.
It can go into the environment, it can collect its own data,
it can reject data based on its experience.
Whatever reward he gets in a long term basis based on
that he can do, uh, uh, like whether
to keep the data or whether
or not to keep the data, whether, uh,
that data will be accepted for his, uh, training agent.
And for long time or not, all those decision are taken care
by reinforcement learning.
So that is the main difference.
Now, uh, how does it happen?
So it is like this in this, uh, in this figure,
you can see the learning cycle
of the reinforcement learning.
So first one is there is a agent here,
and the agent is living inside an environment, okay?
And environment is ha uh, is having states,
states means, I will take you one example.
Like a robot is walking on a slippery floor. Floor, okay?
So the float is basically divided into equal grid,
equal size, g grided,
and every grid are, uh, denoted
by their coordinate position in the floor.
So every greed position, this coordinate position is known
as state, and the agent is basically moving
across the floor.
He is jumping from one grid to another G grid.
So he, he will go to it.
He'll take a transition from one grid to another grid
based on the reward that he is getting from the environment.
Environment is providing reward to the agent as
and when he do some transition.
So that is what is basically operation of
agent based learning.
So there are,
there are four components here that you can see.
The first one is there is a agent here,
and the cycle begins now.
So the cycle is basically agent is taking an
action, is taking an action.
Look at this curve is taking an action.
That action is imposed on the environment,
and environment is responding
by transitioning from one step to another state.
And when the environment is conditioning,
environment will emit a reward to the agent.
So this is what is the reward that you see this card, okay?
And then environment, uh, that agent will try
to make a guess about how good is the reward, whether it was
before or better than before or not.
So it'll take a decision.
So it is basically called improving loop.
So it'll do some update.
After doing some update again,
the agent will take another action as a result,
environment will move to another state,
and then it'll emit a reward.
Okay? So this is what goes on every time.
So again, takes an action. There is a, there's a, a car.
You see here, it is called transition.
After transitioning, the state to state,
change is happening, the environment,
and then it is environment is emitting a
reward to that agent.
Agent will evaluate the reward,
and then it'll take another action.
This will go on until the agent is able to maximize
the expected reward that he has gained over the period
of all the action, okay?
Expected reward. So by this time, you might,
you are already familiar with
what is called expected thing, okay?
Expectation means it is a average of all of your, um,
uh, value that you have.
Got it.
Okay. So here is the same thing described here, agent
and then environment, the left hand side column, okay?
And then right hand sides, state versus observation
state is basically the environment is residing in which
state, once it receives the action from the agent,
it'll do a transition from one state to another state, okay?
And every time it'll emit some reward.
That is called observation.
This is what goes on.
So you see that this is the experience
that is gained over the period of time by the agent.
So agent is look at this direction of the arrow mark.
So agent is taking an action.
This action is imposed on the not imposed.
This action is, um, taken on the environment,
and then environment was residing in the state of ace.
Okay? Here you see, state of ace
environment will emit a reward.
That reward will be given to the agent.
And then ace, I mean, environment will move from state of A
to sdes, okay?
And that point of time of, upon receiving the reward,
the agent will evaluate the, uh, expected reward,
and then it'll take another action that is action.
A ds. This, A DS is taken on the state of SD.
As a result, environmental will emit the reward of rde,
and then environment will move into the next step.
Called is double prime, okay?
And again, the action will be taken by the agent,
which is called a double prime.
And this cycle goes on.
So all of these actions are taken at every timestamp,
T TT plus one, T plus two, T plus three.
It'll go on until the episode ends.
Episode means it is called finite horizon.
So you are not allowed to take actions forever.
You are going to take action only
for limited amount of time.
Okay? So that is called a horizon,
or we can call it as a episode.
One of the similar, uh, thing with episode,
you can consider, like
whenever you do a, you are doing a training of your
machine learning models, okay?
You have been provided a whole data set.
Let's, your data set is containing 10,000 samples, okay?
And you are doing a batch, uh,
you are doing a training using the batch.
Let's say your batch size is 20, okay?
So that means randomly you take 20 samples from a 10,000
sample, you form a batch, you send the batch to your input
of your machine learning model.
That means 20 samples are feed
into your machine learning model.
After the, after the model has seen all
of those tier 20 sample,
it'll do a batch gradient and update.
Okay? And then
after updating the weights of the model,
it'll take the next batch, even the next batch,
we'll be having 20 samples.
So like that, if you count how many batches to we feed in,
that is 10,000 divided by 20.
Okay? So that many batches you are sending to your model,
and every batch is causing us batch gradient descent.
Update onto your model. Okay?
Now, if you want to compare this with your
reinforcement learning technique here, you take a action,
you do a transition, you get a reward, okay?
So this is called one simple example
that you are feeding to your model.
You take action, you get a reward.
You, your environment is understanding from a state
called S two S desk.
This is called one example, okay?
So like that, if you take multiple
example, that will become a batch.
That means multiple action you take,
that will become a batch.
Okay? Then what is called your,
uh, epoch.
In case of machine learning algorithm,
you have a concept called epoch.
Okay? EPOCH means the whole data set
that is containing 10,000 samples.
You have seen all of those 20 thou, all
of those 10,000 samples for
one time, that is called one epoch.
Okay? Second, OC means all of those 10, 10,000 samples,
you have seen them for two times.
So like that, if you have training with a hundred epoch,
that means each and every sample you are going
to see 400 times that is called epoch.
Okay? After completion of epoch, your training is gonna end.
So if I want to say there is a counterpart
of EPOCH into reinforcement learning,
that is called your episode.
Okay? So episode is basically you need this time horizon.
So you can do all of these action.
This action A is taken at a time of p action.
A D is taken at a time of p plus one. Okay? Action.
A double prime is taken at a time of p plus two like
that if you, let's say wait for thousand timestamp.
So that is consisting of your
one episode, okay?
So these are all definition, purpose, how
to connect your definition
and all slowly will get into them.
So this is what is a, a diagrammatic, uh, explanation
of your agent and environment interaction.
So you see there is a image over here, okay?
This image is from the
very famous researcher in reinforcement learning.
His name is called Peter, PTER.
Peter Abel, I will show you his face
because I follow his work very, very much.
So I'll show you in addition, those who have time,
if you want to gain more knowledge on the subject, yeah.
So yeah, so this is is what he has six lectures
for the deep reinforcement learning.
Although you do not, your course is
not on deep reinforcement.
Your courses are only simple reinforcement learning. Okay?
So I'm going to cover this L one lecture for
about like two
or three lecture session, okay?
Had it been a class I would have, I mean,
had it been direct contact
with me in the physical classroom,
I would've completed this in one class itself.
But in online mode, it'll take some time. Okay?
So you can very well go
through his profile is very famous person Peter Abel.
Okay? One of the biggest, uh, model that has, uh,
made a big breakthrough result in, um,
deep reinforcement learning, that is called solving the game
of Atari, A-T-A-R-I, which is, uh,
a subpart of the problem.
I will show you, we, I'll produce a code to you,
I will show you how does it work also, that has been solved
by using deep reinforcement learning.
Specifically the algorithm is called
Q learning algorithm, okay?
They did not use the advanced algorithm.
What Chad GP is using,
although this Peter is part of open AI company,
he is a pioneer of one of the algorithm
by which Chad GPT is trained.
It is called proximal policy optimization. Okay?
I'll show you when the lecture almost
gets into advanced stage.
I will show you what is it actually.
Okay? So this is a diagrammatic example, uh,
not example diagrammatic view of the mark
of tuition process called, okay?
So you see that there is an agent here
and there's an environment here.
Agent is taking an action, a
that means action taken at time T
and environment is transitioning from ace to st plus one,
and it is emitting a reward.
A reward is coming to agent,
and agent can observe on which state the
environment has moved in.
Okay? So these are the two feedback he gets from the
environment by the
probabilistic definition.
So to define a markup process, we have several component.
So this one is the set of state called capital S, set
of action called capital.
A set of action is taken by the agent
and set of states belong to the environment, okay?
Uh, transition function.
Transition function is you look at,
this is a conditional probability.
So conditional probability, this term might be known to you
for few, it may not be known to you.
So conditional means, given a condition has already offered,
what is the probability that the thing
that we're specifying on the left hand side here, right?
Probability of a given ace.
A that means given that you are into the state of ace,
that means your environment is living in the state of ace
and the agent has taken action called a,
what is the priority that your environment will move into
the next step call is desk.
Okay? So that is called conditional probability.
This is called transition function.
I'll show you all of the example. You don't worry about it.
This is only about, I'm telling you the definitions
because all of this nomenclature needs to be told
before I start giving a concrete example.
Then the reward function.
So reward function is a three double information.
So reward is
provided by the environment,
it's emitted by the environment.
Given that the environment was in the state called is,
it has taken action called small.
I mean environment has not taken the action.
The agent has taken action called small a,
and the environment is conditioning into a
desk at that position.
Based on these three argument, what is a reward?
The environment is provided
and then, uh, start state, start state is basically
the agent, uh, whenever he's starting the interaction
with the environment, the environment was initialized at a
state call is not okay.
And every time a reward is
provided by the environment, the reward is discounted
by a factor called gamma.
Okay? So what is the pH? Philosophical is discounted factor.
So that philosophical reason is a very live, live example.
Like, I mean, it is a, it happens all the time.
The human being, uh, is interacting
with the not only human being, even for animal being also.
So let's say you, um, you
invested some amount of money, okay?
Uh, if you keep it in a longer amount of time, you are going
to get a good return, okay?
So that is for the people who have a, uh,
who have a long term vision,
but for those people who want a very short term
return, okay?
So for them like a, any greedy kind of, um,
philosophy, so for them, whatever action I'm taking now
and the reward that I'm receiving, the longer I wait
for the reward to happen, okay?
The less reward I'm going to get
that is called discounted reward.
So today I'm texting some action, I will get a reward
tomorrow if I wait that, if I say that, no, I don't want
to receive the reward tomorrow, I want to wait for
some more amount of time to get the reward, then
this model defines that your reward is going to be
diminishing by a factor called comma.
Okay? We'll show you the example in a
example of a like robot is moving in the flow itself.
I will show you the example and then the horizon.
Horizon is call how many decision you are going to take.
The agent is allowed to take a finite amount
of decision that is called horizon. So good evening,
Sir.
So I have one small, uh, query on this thing.
Uh, so when you're saying the discounted factor,
suppose I have a task where I have
to move my drone system in space from point A to point B.
So in this, what will be by discounted factors?
So discount factor is basically I will give you example
of your, uh, chase game.
So you are playing a chase game, you make your movement,
you don't get the reward at that instant
of your movement itself, okay?
You wait till the game ends.
Whenever you have win, you are going to get reward, okay?
So you're not going to get the reward till the
time of game has finished.
So this is called a kind of, um,
it is called uh, mm a delay.
It is not a delayed reward.
It is basically it is bound to happen like this only.
So what we do is for every action
that immediately we have taken, it is basically
a sequential decision making process, okay?
It is not like one action we take
and immediately we get a reward from the environment.
We finish one particular chain of action,
then we see whether we have received, whether we have, uh,
reached the final destination or not.
If we have not received financial,
we'll get a minus one reward or negative reward.
If we have got a final destination,
then we get a positive reward,
then we'll redo the same thing so that we try
to reinforce those path.
That path has led to your success.
That is your final destination is a desired destination.
Okay? So this is called delayed reward.
So every time we take action, even for your drone movement,
also, every time you take an action, okay, you are trying
to find some particular object, you make a movement,
you may not, you are away from your final destination.
You will not get reward at that moment itself.
Then you take sequence of decisions.
Then you finally end up with total number of decision,
let's say capital N, okay?
If at the end of capital Anderson,
if you have reached the final destination,
then you'll get a positive score, okay?
And that score will be divided to all the states
that you have taken some action on all of those states.
How to distribute the score.
That is a important thing to be decided
by the reinforcement learning algorithm.
Okay? So your score,
your return value is not gonna be coming
from the environment immediate,
Yes. So then you mean
to say
that when the object moves from one place here to point A
to point B, there'll be in between, there'll be
so many way points will be there.
So each, every way point will have an individual score
finally contributing to the final destination.
So that what you mean to say a discounted factor for
Yeah, discounted factor.
I'll show you, I'll show you example, okay? Okay.
Your, your, uh, reward is
provided from the last action that is your end
of action, correct?
The goal which you reached. Yeah, well,
you may not reach the goal,
but you have a time limit of taking action, okay?
Okay. So when the limit has expired, at that point of time,
you are going to get a reward from the environment.
Based on that, whether you have meet your desired objective
or not, if you have not meet there,
you will get a negative reward.
Now you distribute your reward in a backward manner.
Understood? So last state, the reward will be coming back
to the initial state.
At every time you pass on one step back to your source,
you have to do a diminishing of reward by a gamma factor.
Okay? So we is similar to some kind of, uh,
back propagation algorithm you use in neural networks,
where we see that, uh, bates correction again,
we'll go back,
Yeah, it is, uh, not similar,
Somewhat, Uh, the, that, this, yeah, no, actually
this reinforcement learning why they have gone
for discounted data is a very real requirement.
It is a, it is happens all the time in the real life itself.
In case of back propagation, uh,
back propagation is basically a method of solving your, uh,
uh, your, uh, classification problem,
whatever problem you are working on, okay?
It is a method of solving without back propagation.
Also, you can solve many problems
of machine learning if it's not too complex.
But in case of reinforcement learning,
you cannot avoid this discounted return
because actually the reinforcement learning,
it has originated from a real cause of we are trying
to learn like not only human being,
every animal being also, um,
there was a famous dog called Pablo Dog,
by which actually this, uh, uh, reinforcement learning,
the authorized that I have already given the name, right,
Richard Suan
and Bra, they have observed that there was a dog,
which has been trained that by hearing a bell,
he'll be provide the he'll provided the food
before giving the food,
he will be hearing a bell at a particular time.
Okay? Now, if the food is not
provided, then the
after hearing the bill, the dog starts salvaging,
the salvation is coming not by seeing the food,
but by expectation of a food, by hearing a bill action.
Okay? So from this, uh, they have got the idea that
reinforcement learning is something, a real time
and real time interaction of agent with the environment
by the help of past experience.
So you have already trained the dog
by using the ringing bell.
After ringing the bell, you are giving him the food.
So he is accustom to that.
Now, if you don't provide the food, you will see
that the dog starts salvation, okay?
So they wanted to imitate that into the
way a agent can interact with the world, not human being,
but any robot if it is interacting with the world.
In that case, he has to gather many past experience,
and every experience is going to be
meeting a certain outcome.
At that end of taking so many sequential decision,
after that, he will distribute
that reward in a backward manner
by doing a diminishing return.
Okay? And once he makes a learning out of this
for long amount of time, and next time,
whenever he is getting any kind of, uh,
signal from the environment,
he can do some action based on his past experience.
So this is unavoidable in reinforcement learning,
whereas back prop is something you can avoid if
you don't use neural network.
Yes, sir. Understood, sir.
So basically similar like we are amortization the entire
reward across various states.
Yeah, you are going to maximize your expected reward,
not the total reward, but it's called expected.
Expected means average. You are going to take sequence
of action at every action.
It is meeting some final, uh, hit point.
And from there you are estimate your, uh, return.
Now you take, you, uh, restart your series
of action, okay?
When you restart, your series of you are going
to take a finite amount of attempt, you are going
to hit the wall again, you receive the reward.
Now, when you do the submission,
you should not do the flat submission.
You should do the submission with the help
of multiplication, of the probability
of taking this action at that state.
The moment to take an into account of probabilistic,
it becomes expected, done it, it's not a
exact value, okay?
Okay? I will tell you in the next class is, uh, notice, sir.
Okay, lemme, lemme show you. Just gimme a moment.
I'll attach my stylus.
So all of you are familiar with basic thing like, uh,
average variance and all.
Yes, sir. Okay, good.
Because we're gonna maximize our
expected reward all the time.
We're not going maximize our total difference.
So, uh, lemme connect my status.
So this course has a lot of
maths, which are unheard,
but I will handhold your journey so that, uh,
you do not feel it is a troublesome journey.
You are able to see this, uh, screen of north shift, Tys.
Yeah. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Okay.
Let write down your expression.
For what,
what is the objective that we try to solve here?
I'll just write that part alone.
Okay? Okay.
So every time the agent is taking some action,
let's say
action a At
the time of st.
So this is a pair the agent has taken action at, at the time
of t when the environment was in state T.
Okay? So it is receiving a reward
called rt.
Then, uh, your
environment has done st two, st plus one.
At that point of time, you're gonna take 80 plus one
agent is gonna take this action again, it is going
to receive a reward at that time, RT plus
one, okay?
Like that. This will go on for let's say
st plus of capital T
and A is the action he has taken at the time, instead
of t plus capital T, okay?
The final action after that, he cannot
because time has expired.
So he has taken total how many action
capital t number of action.
The moment last action is ending,
he is receiving a reward or T word.
Okay? So the objective here is
objective here is to maximize the expected return.
So your return is basically what?
RT plus
gamma RT plus one plus
gamma square RP plus
two, like that.
It'll go on. This gamma is basically
your discount factor, okay?
This gamma is basically your discount factor.
This is gamma times
gamma alone Here, yes, gamma square.
Okay? So you are doing a, you are doing a
multiplication every time by gamma as
and when you are moving into the future.
So it'll be ending up at gamma power
TRT plus, okay?
It means that this is called R,
this is gamma, okay?
This is gamma, and this one is R.
The reward given it is called instantaneous reward.
This R is called instant
is instantaneous reward,
and this instantaneous reward is multiplied by the gamma
to the power, the time instant
that it has the agent has moved into the future, okay?
It has moved into the T time in the future.
Starting from there, at the time of T, he has taken
capital T number of steps.
That is what this is called.
Some of all the rewards had started from the state
of st, okay?
This ST means at the time of T, the environment is in
state of st.
So now, if I give you a concrete example like this,
I say this is a floor, a three cross,
three floor, you can consider this is
three plus three floor.
Every grid has its own coordinate position starting from
here, zero, zero.
You'll have here zero one, this position left,
left index zero comma two, uh, 0 1, 0 1, 2, 0 4, like that.
Okay? So this will not be required
because we are ending in here.
So this is required, this is required.
And again, for this, this is required. This is required.
So this will be just, if you take this as zero, I mean this,
so it'll be one comma zero here,
there will be two comma zero,
and here it'll be zero comma one.
This are the coordinate position.
Now, what is your st
and all st basically at time t you are starting from this
state of st okay?
At time t you may start from anywhere in this,
let's say your desired place to go here is there is a,
there is a cake cape to here.
The robot is moving and there is a hole over here.
The robot is standing here at this initial phase. Okay?
So now your st at is basically ace of zero.
Your ace of zero is in this, that is zero comm,
zero this position, okay?
And then he's gonna take capital T number of transition.
So capital t, let's say you're taking,
let's say 10 steps, okay?
So you may go from here to here. That is one step.
So you go from here to here and from here you go here
and it is a random walk.
You do it just like a flipping a coin.
If it is a head, you move this side.
If it is a tail, you move this side, okay? Like that.
Now, if that is a movement, okay?
So if you do another day, uh, another time tossing,
you may be hitting the wall.
If you keep on moving here, the movement,
you hit the wall, okay?
There is a policy that means the movement policy,
movement policy is defined by call
trion probability metrics.
So what does it say? Basically, if you hit the wall,
you may go downside, you may go upside.
So this all defined by your, if you don't hit the wall,
you'll be moving to your desired action itself, okay?
Like that. If you take a left movement here,
you'll be hitting the wall, and as a result
of hitting the wall, you may be going this side
or you may be going this side.
Okay? So these are various possible of your is not,
it's not meant at times zero.
You may be starting from either zero, zero,
you may start from here, you may start from here.
There is no bound on it, okay?
If you, let's say you start from here, in that case,
your reward is going to be very certain.
If you take a right hand side movement, you are going
to get a reward immediately.
Okay? If you start from here,
if you take a movement on this side,
you are going away from your reward.
Okay? So that is why they say that we have
to take into account of this diminishing factor, okay?
And then do the sum. And this is
for one calculation of your reward.
The moment we say expected reward,
that means this is for my one trial.
Let's say this is my first trial.
I'm going to start another second trial at that position,
let's say this is for my first trial, okay?
Let's say I'm starting my second trial,
which is indexed by two here.
This is indexed by one. This is superscript index.
That means this is my trial index value.
One means first, all two means second trial.
So let's say I'm starting from this state called 1.0.
If I start from this state
and I take, I just do it to coin tossing
based on that, I make a movement.
It's a random of movement.
So every movement I am getting into some next state.
And then again, I do point tossing.
I will not get any reward in
between till the time I hit either here,
let's say move into a hole, I get a negative reward, okay?
So it's fortunately if I move from here to here with this
and then go here, then I will get into,
so all these are basically a probabilistic,
it is called random work.
So you take all of the reward into account, okay?
Do a discount factor,
and then for all of the trial, you need to account them
with, uh, the probability
that you have taken action of this.
So there'll be something like pi, PI called probability
of taking action at given st,
multiplied by reward, instantaneous reward disregard this
plus again, probability of do not get frightened
by all these things because these are not going to be, um,
coming to your real life work, okay?
Unless you are into research domain,
do not get frightened, okay?
So, because every time we see, uh, students,
they get frightened.
That's right. So you take another
action at the next state called st plus one.
This will be provided by the reward, okay?
And every time this you are making this prob stick movement,
you have to multiply this with gamma,
then plus gamma square here.
Next, you take another action,
80 plus one, two plus two.
This is vertical bar conditional taking as an 80 plus,
given that you are into state call st plus one,
this multiplied by the instantaneous rewarded here.
When you do this, you'll get into call expected reward.
Okay?
You have any question?
So like in our, uh, machine learning
Algorithms and surrounding deep link,
we have this loss function that is objective function
where we try to minimize the loss the same way.
Here, our objective will be
to maximize the expert return, right,
Sir? Yes, yes, yes.
Okay.
Okay. So I already
shared this lecture notes.
These are just for PPT, the chapter one, PDF.
Already I have shared with
material they'll be providing you.
So there is a problem for every learning algorithm.
That problem is called, uh, exploitation
and exploration problem.
Okay? So it is like this exploitation means,
let's say you have hired a new employee in your office
and while taking interview, you know
what he's good at, okay?
Now you are going to give him the project you are assigning
the project to him in the area in which he's strong is
called exploitation of the skill
that the person is already having.
Consider that the person who has come to you is a agent.
Agent means he is a human being.
He is upgrading his skill again and again, okay?
He may have his own desire.
So he may do the job for with you
for let's say one year and one and a half years.
The moment he gets some amount of skill,
he will try to upgrade his skill.
So for him, it is something,
it's called exploration, okay?
And exploration means basically he is trying
to explore something new action by which he wants
to gather more and more knowledge.
Exploitation means the person who is getting exploited,
he may not learn any new knowledge out of the action
that he's taking on.
Okay? So we have a trade off.
These are all very real life problem.
That is where reinforcement learning
deals with this kind of problem.
So whenever we take any action by any agent, okay,
based on the previous experience, we try to give
priority to the action, which has earned
a positive reward in the previous cycle of, uh, action,
state action sequence.
Okay? We don't try to take any action,
which has given negative feedback, that is
what is called exploitation.
But as and when the learning progress,
it has progressed quite a mature amount of time.
Then what we do is we don't exploit the action
that has given me a higher amount of reward.
I will take some action, which has given me lesser amount of
reward in my previous cycle of knowledge gathering.
Then after taking that risky path, then again,
I will try to, uh,
do this exploit exploitation, okay?
I will take into some risky zone,
then I'll just do some few cycles of exploitation.
Then again, I'll go into one mode of exploitation.
So this will go on, okay?
So you always call it as this, the way
to solve this problem is called if silent, greedy.
If silent means a very less, probably like 0.05 probability
with LA 0.05 probability, we do exploration of new action
and 0.95 probability we exploit the earlier
actions, okay?
That is called salability.
So we try to, uh, make a trade, uh, trade off
between greedy and non greedy.
That is called exploitation and exploitation, all of them.
I will show you the examples.
These are the various things that I told I wanted
to tell you before the formal class begins.
So these are the some, uh, successful application
of reinforcement learning.
As I told you, this 2013 and 15
after game was solved by DQ Network.
And the person who who's YouTube lecturer to shown you,
right, Peter, he is into this, uh, team
who has, which has solved already 2015 this problem.
And the same team has proposed one mode, level of algorithm,
which is the very, very, um, heart of your chat,
GPT repeatable,
and then, uh, David Silva,
these names you might be hearing first time,
but from me, you'll keep on encountering this name.
Then AlphaGo again, AlphaGo was
so deep Q Network is was solved by Google DeepMind.
AlphaGo, also also solved by Google DeepMind. Okay?
So then these people, again, these AlphaGo people,
they have come up with this algorithm called tpo,
OA three C-T-R-P-O.
These are the algorithms
because of whom chat GBT has made the success over Google
DeepMind, uh, model called BRT model.
By this time, you all of you know, this call model,
like DRT model.
DRT model is the first model which has implemented, uh,
which has implemented transformer technology,
but they are not the people who have implemented PPO.
Because this PPO is standing
under reinforcement learning algorithm.
PPO has been implemented by open AI people
and these people like this, Peter Abel
and all those who have worked in DQ network in Google mine,
they shifted to open AI company.
They come up with this algorithm, they made chat GBT.
So the people remain same product is different.
This is a very, very huge battle going on in the
world and the AI space.
So I take spec specific interest to this domain
of learning these algorithms, which will not be part
of your topic.
This is part of deep reinforcement learning thing. Okay?
So today I end up the class over here 7 29 time.
Now, if you have any question you can ask me.
This is brought over. You have provided to you.
So do not be frightened.
I will be handholding you in this journey
and, um, I'm sure very few of them will be useful for your
company, uh, project and work,
unless you are into robotics or yeah,
unless you into robotics, then
otherwise it'll not be so much useful for you.
Those who are working in software
training LLM is not happening in India.
This is only useful for training of LLM. Okay?
So pretty much, I think
only 20% of the thing of this codes will be useful
for you in terms of daily deliverable in your projects,
in your company, okay?
But as a, uh, as a learning thing, this is a very good thing
because this is one of the most important thing
that has enabled GPT.
How relevant is this course for this, uh,
domain of computer visions?
Yeah, it has a lot of relevance
because robot see,
reinforcement learning comes into advanced robotics.
Okay? So all those, uh, multimodal information
that you gain from your various sensors, then you, uh,
you keep on taking sequential actions, okay?
Every action will not be providing some reward,
but at the end, you are going
to get some reward based on that.
You have to, um, come up with estimation
of sequence of action.
What sequence of action might have
given you a positive reward.
So for that reinforcement learning will help you.
Okay? So like in case of machine learning,
you start training, okay?
You have no idea which neuron is learning more,
which neuron is not learning more.
You'll have no idea. But in case of reinforcement learning,
after training a long time, you'll come to conclusion
that which set of action has given you
a final positive reward.
Which set of action has given you
a negative reward like that?
So maybe you can go for optimization by, yeah, okay.
You know, it is standing on optimization.
Optimization is not your objective.
Your ob your objectives to ex uh, uh,
maximize your expected reward.
To do that, you need the help of optimization.
Your optimization is a tool for you. It's not an objective.
Okay? Okay. So, uh, next class, we'll catch up on Saturday.
Saturday, uh, so Sunday night we're going to have a quiz.
Okay, fine. Yes. Yeah.
The timing of the quiz
Quiz will be open till Sunday, eight, uh, I think, uh,
10:00 PM till 10:00 PM We'll keep it open.
It'll open for only six minutes.
Once you enter by six minute, it'll close it up
because only three question will be there, all our,
uh, MCQ question.
Okay? So when it start, so from what time
It'll start, sir, The moment you log in, if you,
let's say you make up your mind,
it'll give you only six minute time
From what time the quiz will be
Open. It'll open
throughout the, the, I mean
Sunday, whole Sunday, yeah, through Sunday.
Okay. Sunday also, you can go and do that, no problem.
We'll be opening it up from Saturday itself, okay?
Okay, sir. Thank you. Yeah.
Every, every week there will be quizzes, right?
Yeah, yeah. Every week I write
Those logistics are all are discussed.
Sir, like, can you give some details as to, uh, how we,
how you are conducting, uh, the midem
and all these things, those logistics?
Yeah. I'll provide you next class.
I have another class coming up that side. Okay.
Yeah, because in the last semester we had a lot
of confusion around some of the subjects. So like
We don't have, uh, I'll not be conducting any
midem directly.
You have nem.
Okay? Okay. Yeah. Those things
we, we would like to know initially. So, um,
Yeah. So I'll provide
you them, okay? Okay. Thank
You. So I had a doubt.
So this Saturday you'll, you'll be having one quiz, right?
Conducting one quiz?
No, you can add him the quiz in the Sunday night,
Sir. I had a doubt regarding,
uh, even in this topic,
that is reinforcement learning.
We'll have be, we'll be having code Python.
Yeah, Python, yeah. We'll be doing practically also.
Yes. Yes, yes. Okay.
Thank you.